---
title: Manage OCI on Incus
categories: [Guides,Incus]
tags: [guides,incus,linux,debian,oci]
image:
  path: assets/img/title/incus-oci.svg
---

I have been deploying more OCI containers on my setup and this is a post about the things I have learned. This is mostly to remind me of commands I have used to work around the differences between using OCI on Incus and docker.

## Useful Commands
Each command is from evaluating kanidm.

### Add an OCI remote
The following command adds the remote image source for Docker.
`incus remote add docker https://docker.io --protocol=oci`

### Launch OCI container
This launches a container with the name kanidm.

`incus launch docker:kanidm/server:latest kanidm`

This launches a container with the name kanidm and passes an environment file.

`incus launch docker:kanidm/server:latest kanidm --environment-file=/home/user/kanidm/.env`

### Persistent storage
Add a persistent storage to the conatiner.

`incus config device add kanidm data disk path=/data source=/home/user/kanidm/data shift=true`

### Running initial commands
If you need to run a command in the container like `docker run` you can do the following. I had to do this to run [kanidm](https://kanidm.com/) container and the command references that.

`incus config set kanidm oci.entrypoint='/sbin/kanidm cert-generate'`

After running the container again you can unset this with the following.

`incus config unset kanidm oci.entrypoint`

This is equivalent to the following.
```bash
docker run --rm -i -t -v kanidmd:/data \
  docker.io/kanidm/server:latest \
  kanidmd cert-generate
```
